# SYMBA-FI
SYMBA-FI project
Repository for SYMBA-FI: An offshoot of the main SYMBA project with the goal of extending SYMBA's capabilities to calculate square amplitudes directly from potentially complex Feynman Diagrams/Feynman Integrals (FIs). This project was started as part of Google Summer of Code (GsoC) 2023 as part of the Machine Learning for Science (ML4SCI) umbrella organizaion. Work on SYMBA-FI will continue beyond the GsoC 2023 period.


**GOAL:**
The specific goal of SYMBA-FI is to modify the SYMBA sequence-to-sequence transformer model to take advantage of matrices representing linear systems of equations and/or ordinary differential equations which are set up and solved in the process of numerically solving FIs. Based on relatively recent investigation into using seq-2-seq transformers for symbolic linear algebraic problems (Charton, 2021), we aim to modify SYMBA to accept symbolic matrices representative of given FIs or diagrams as input to the model and train SYMBA to return the correct symbolic squared amplitudes.

**WHAT'S BEEN DONE:**
A large amount of time was dedicated to learning the mathematical theory behind systematically solving Feynman Integrals. The initial estimate was that this would be complete by July, but more time was needed to fully understand which key parts of the process where linear algebraic information lived.
To create a functional SYMBA-FI, a dataset of input data matrices and labeled target squared amplitudes must be created. To this end we are utilizing [AMFlow](https://gitlab.com/multiloop-pku/amflow), a mathematica package for solving FIs, and planning to modify the code to extract the matrix information for the FIs.
Currently, a semi-functional code for data generation has been completed. Details can be found below in the "MERGED CODE" section. 

**WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE:**
Dataset generation is still currently in development. SYMBA uses [Modern ARtificial Theoretical phYsicist (MARTY)](https://github.com/docbrown1955/marty-public) to generate datasets of amp/sqamp and diagram/sqamp. However, AMFlow needs FI information in a very specific form, slightly different from the standard form in which physicists are used to writing FIs. It's also not so straightforward to extract the needed information from MARTY by default. Currently, the focus is on exploring MARTY more in depth to identify how to extract said information or explicitly construct FIs in a form more suitable for AMFlow. Specifically, we need to extract propagators from FIs in the form that AMFlow expects them. We will also generalize dataset generation from 2-to-2 processes to general n-to-m.
Once the data has been created, SYMBA-FI must be created and trained. SYMBA-FI is to be built and trained using Neeraj Anand's [PyTorch implementation of SYMBA](https://github.com/ML4SCI/SYMBA_Pytorch) as a basis. In accordance with existing version(s) of SYMBA, SYMBA-FI will be evaluated on the basis of metrics including sequence accuracy and token accuracy. 
After building/training SYMBA-FI, we may also consider avenues currently being investigated for the main version of SYMBA, including modifications and improvements for accuracy predicting longer sequences and alternative attention mechanisms.

**MERGED CODE:**
The currently merged code, that which is different from already existing SYMBA code, is a work in progress of the data generation code. It can be found in the folder "marty_data_generation/QED/," and consists of "All_ParticlesIO.cpp" and "QED_loop_insertions.py", the C++ code that uses MARTY for generating data and the python script that specifies the which processes to consider, respectively. This code is based off of Marco Knipfer's data generation code for [SYMBA-prefix](https://github.com/ML4SCI/SYMBA/tree/main) and has been modified where appropriate for SYMBA-FI.
This code uses MARTY to create a single large .wl (WolframScript) file with the general structure for running AMFlow input for all given integrals. Of the major information needed by AMFlow, currently the internal/external momenta are extracted from diagrams and provided by MARTY. Obtaining propagator information is the current focus. Conservation and replacement rules are hard-coded placeholder for 2-to-2 processes. Numerical information in the outputs are also placeholder, since we will not require it for SYMBA-FI's goals. Processes have been heavily restricted to electron scattering for code testing and development purposes.

**LESSONS LEARNED:**
Although I should have expected it, I have learned that project complexity and scope can suddenly increase unexpectedly. Despite learning the needed theory for solving FIs and ML, there is still a gap to bridge between MARTY and AMFlow that was unexpectedly large, requiring that I learn both C++ and the more complex functions of MARTY just to begin setting up the needed dataset. I also learned that I should be more aware of version control when utilizing software that depends on multiple auxiliary programs, as a version control issue set me back 3 weeks before I could identify the issue properly.
